Manali is located in the district of Kullu in Himachal Pradesh. Situated at an altitude of about 1950 m above sea level, it is about 250 km away from the state capital of Shimla. 
History of Manali
Manali has been named after Brahmas’s appointed lawgiver Manu, who is said to have arrived in this region to begin the seventh cycle of creation and destruction. The region is also said to be the home of the seven great sages of the Hindu religion.
Things to do in Manali
As an important hill station and tourist destination of India, Manali offers much in terms of natural beauty such as panoramic views of the surrounding snow-capped mountains, flower gardens and orchards with green and red apples; places such as Solang Valley known as a winter sports location; the Nehru Kund, which is a clear water spring; the Kothi Village, offering views of a deep gorge through which River Beas flows; and the Rahalla Falls. 
Apart from being a hill station, there are also several other attractions that are an integral part of Manali tourism. The Hadimba Temple built in 1533 AD is dedicated to Hadimba, the wife of Bhima who was one of the Pandavas. The Manu Temple dedicated to the sage and lawgiver Manu is located in old Manali. The Vasishta Temple dedicated to Lord Rama and Sage Vasishta is known for its hot springs. The nearby town of Jagatsukh is home to a few old temples dedicated to Shiva and Sandhya Gayatri.
Manali is a haven for adventure sports enthusiasts. The hill station offers ample opportunities for tourists to participate in activities like skiing, paragliding, trekking, river rafting and fishing. Many Manali holiday packages also include the above sightseeing attractions and activities. 
Food & shopping in Manali
Manali has a mix of popular roadside eateries, cafes and restaurants. Both in Old Manali and the city market, shops selling chaats, north Indian fare, sweets as well hot momos, are a common sight. As for shopping, tourists can buy woolens; local produce like jams and preserves, baked goodies and souvenirs.  	
Travelling to Manali
Manali is easily accessible from Delhi, Shimla, Chandigarh and Ambala. To reach Manali, tourists can also take flights that connect many cities to the nearest airport located at Bhunter, which is 50 km away from Manali. The best time to visit Manali is between May and October.
Accommodation options in Manali
Tourists can avail services from the numerous hotels in Manali. Apart from 5 star hotels and resorts, Manali also has many homestays tourists can choose from to experience the local flavour of this hill station.
